fix: Enabled blog for llamastack (#4467)
meta-llama/llama-stack: docs/blog/2026-01-13-introducing-llama-stack.md

---
slug: introducing-llama-stack
title: Introducing Llama Stack - The Open-Source Platform for Building AI Applications
authors:
  - name: Llama Stack Team
    title: Core Team
    url: https://github.com/llamastack

>     image_url: https://github.com/llama-stack.png

Author: Done

tags: [announcement, introduction, getting-started]
date: 2026-01-13
---

> Welcome to the Llama Stack blog! In this inaugural post, we're excited to introduce you to **Llama Stack** - the open-source platform that simplifies building production-ready generative AI applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to our blog! 

We're excited to introduce you to **Llama Stack** - the open-source platform that simplifies building production-ready generative AI applications.
```

<!--truncate-->

## What is Llama Stack?

> Llama Stack defines and standardizes the core building blocks needed to bring generative AI applications to market. It provides a **unified set of APIs** with implementations from leading service providers, enabling seamless transitions between development and production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Llama Stack defines and standardizes the core building blocks needed to bring generative AI applications to market. It provides a **unified set of APIs** with implementations from leading service providers, enabling seamless transitions between local development and production environments.
```

Reviewer: @raghotham lmk if you agree with this.

> Think of Llama Stack as a universal interface that abstracts away the complexity of working with different AI providers, vector databases, and deployment environments. Whether you're building locally, deploying on-premises, or scaling in the cloud, Llama Stack provides a consistent developer experience.

Author: Done

### Multiple Developer Interfaces

Llama Stack supports various developer interfaces:

- **CLI**: Command-line tools for server management
- **Python SDK**: [`llama-stack-client-python`](https://github.com/meta-llama/llama-stack-client-python)
- **TypeScript SDK**: [`llama-stack-client-typescript`](https://github.com/meta-llama/llama-stack-client-typescript)

## Why Llama Stack?

### Flexibility Without Compromise

Developers can choose their preferred infrastructure without changing APIs. This means you can:

- Start locally for development
- Test with different providers
- Deploy to production with your chosen infrastructure
- Switch providers as your needs evolve

All while maintaining the same codebase and APIs.

### Consistent Experience

With unified APIs, Llama Stack makes it easier to:

- Build applications with consistent behavior
- Test across different environments
- Deploy with confidence
- Maintain and update your codebase

### Robust Ecosystem

Llama Stack integrates with distribution partners including:

- **Cloud Providers**: AWS Bedrock, Together, Fireworks, and more
- **Hardware Vendors**: NVIDIA, Cerebras, SambaNova

> - **Vector Databases**: ChromaDB, Milvus, Qdrant, Weaviate, PostgreSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Vector Databases**: ChromaDB, Milvus, Qdrant, Weaviate, PostgreSQL, ElasticSearch
```

    url: https://github.com/llamastack
    image_url: https://github.com/llama-stack.png
tags: [announcement, introduction, getting-started]
date: 2026-01-08
---

Welcome to the Llama Stack blog! In this inaugural post, we're excited to introduce you to **Llama Stack** - the open-source platform that simplifies building production-ready generative AI applications.

<!--truncate-->

## What is Llama Stack?

Llama Stack defines and standardizes the core building blocks needed to bring generative AI applications to market. It provides a **unified set of APIs** with implementations from leading service providers, enabling seamless transitions between development and production environments.

Think of Llama Stack as a universal interface that abstracts away the complexity of working with different AI providers, vector databases, and deployment environments. Whether you're building locally, deploying on-premises, or scaling in the cloud, Llama Stack provides a consistent developer experience.

## Key Features

### Unified API Layer

Llama Stack provides standardized APIs across six core capabilities:

- **Inference**: Run models locally or in the cloud with a consistent interface

> - **RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation)**: Build knowledge retrieval systems

Reviewer 2: this wasnt changed

- **Agents**: Create intelligent agent workflows
- **Tools**: Integrate with external tools and services
- **Safety**: Built-in safety guardrails and content filtering

> - **Evals**: Comprehensive evaluation and testing toolkit

Reviewer 2: It's in prealpha - https://github.com/llamastack/llama-stack/blob/main/src/llama_stack_api/eval/fastapi_routes.py#L31

- **Cloud Providers**: AWS Bedrock, Together, Fireworks, and more
- **Hardware Vendors**: NVIDIA, Cerebras, SambaNova
- **Vector Databases**: ChromaDB, Milvus, Qdrant, Weaviate, PostgreSQL
- **AI Companies**: OpenAI, Anthropic, Google Gemini

For a complete list, check out our [Providers Documentation](/docs/providers).

## How It Works

Llama Stack consists of two main components:

1. **Server**: A server with pluggable API providers that can run in various environments
2. **Client SDKs**: Libraries for your applications to interact with the server

The server handles all the complexity of managing different providers, while the client SDKs provide a simple, consistent interface for your application code.

Refer to the [Quick Start Guide](https://llamastack.github.io/docs/getting_started/quickstart) to get started building your first AI application with Llama Stack.

## What's Next?

This is just the beginning! In future blog posts, we'll cover:

- Building your first RAG system
- Creating intelligent agents
- Best practices for production deployments
- Case studies from the community
- Latest features and updates
- Comparing Llama Stack with other AI platforms in the ecosystem

> 

Author: @raghotham I updated this part by adding the content calendar from https://docs.google.com/document/d/1it-OsGFgAIwAUctQRQ-j1CBxFHhvSm530YR67eYGW1I/edit?tab=t.4uf22mux1a94
